# Graphite

[![discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/731730685944922173)](https://discord.gg/p2aYjM3)

Graphite is an open-source, cross-platform digital content creation desktop app
for 2D graphics editing, photo processing, vector art, digital painting,
illustration, and compositing. Inspired by the open-source success story of
Blender in the 3D domain, it aims to bring 2D content creation to new heights
with efficient workflows influenced by Photoshop and Illustrator and backed by a
powerful node-based, nondestructive approach proven by Houdini and Substance.

The user experience of Graphite is of central importance, offering a
meticulously-designed UI catering towards an intuitive and efficient artistic
process. Users may draw and edit in the traditional interactive (WYSIWYG)
viewport or jump in or out of the node graph at any time to tweak previous work
and construct powerful procedural image generators that seamlessly sync with the
interactive viewport.

A core principle of the application is its 100%
nondestructive workflow that is resolution-agnostic, meaning that raster-style
image editing can be infinitely zoomed and scaled to any arbitrary resolution at
a later time because editing is done by recording brush strokes, vector shapes,
and other manipulations parametrically. One might use the painting tools on a
small laptop display, zoom into specific areas to add detail to finish the
artwork, then perhaps try changing the simulated brush style from a blunt pencil
to a soft acrylic paintbrush after-the-fact, and finally export the complete
drawing at ultra high resolution for printing on a giant poster.

On the surface,
Graphite is an artistic medium for drawing anything imaginable - under the hood,
the node graph in Graphite powers procedural graphics and parametric rendering
to produce unique artwork and automated data-driven visualizations. Graphite
brings together artistic workflows and empowers your creativity in a free,
open-source package that feels familiar but lets you go further.

## Status

Graphite is in an early stage of development and its vision is highly ambitious.
The project is seeking collaborators to help design and develop the software. If
interested, please open an issue to get in touch or introduce yourself in the
project's Discord chat server at `https://discord.gg/p2aYjM3` (remove the
dashes).

## Design

### Interactive viewport *(work-in-progress design mockup)*

![Interactive viewport](https://files.keavon.com/-/EmotionalShoddyTurnstone/capture.png)

### Node editor *(work-in-progress design mockup)*

![Node editor](https://files.keavon.com/-/PartialTalkativePooch/capture.png)

## Technology

[Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) is the language of choice for a number of
compelling reasons. It is low-level and highly efficient which is important
because the nondestructive, resolution-agnostic editing approach will already be
challenging to render fast enough for real-time, interactive editing.
Furthermore, Rust makes multithreading very easy to implement and its safety
guarantees will eliminate the inclusion of many bugs and crashes in the
software. It is also easy to compile Rust code natively to Windows, macOS,
Linux, and even web browsers via WebAssembly, with the possibility of deploying
Graphite to mobile devices down the road as well.

[WebGPU](https://gpuweb.github.io/gpuweb) (via Mozilla's [WGPU Rust
library](https://wgpu.rs)) is being used as the graphics API because it is
modern, portable, and safe. It makes deployment on the web and native platforms
easy while ensuring consistent cross-platform behavior. It also offers the
ability to use compute shaders to perform many tasks that speed up graphical
computations.

The [GUI framework](gui) is being custom-built for the specific needs of
Graphite's interface, based on a simple XML format inspired by HTML, CSS, and
Vue.js. This is the current focus of development.

Scripting language: this is to-be-decided. JavaScript (via [Deno's V8 Rust
library](https://github.com/denoland/rusty_v8)) is one option,
[Mun](https://mun-lang.org/) or Lua are other possibilities, and WebAssembly
modules or modular compiled Rust modules are other possibilities.

[Pathfinder](https://github.com/servo/pathfinder) is a Rust library that will be
used for vector graphics rendering.
